DEVDOCS-2135: Document Widget Builder CLI (#1200)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/api-docs/storefront/widgets/widget-builder.md

- [Installing Widget Builder CLI](#installing-widget-builder-cli)
- [Configuring Widget Builder CLI](#configuring-widget-builder-cli)
- [Creating a new project](#creating-a-new-project)
- [Resources](#resources)

</div>

Widget Builder Command Line Interface (**CLI**) is a command line tool that lets you build and preview widgets in real time outside the context of your store.

This article contains detailed instructions on how to install and configure Widget Builder CLI. 

## Prerequisites

* Node.js 14
* npm 6.14
* [A BigCommerce store](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Starting-a-Bigcommerce-Trial).
* API `access_token` with `content modify` scope. For information on how to generate store API credentials, see [Obtaining store API credentials](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-docs/getting-started/authentication/rest-api-authentication#obtaining-store-api-credentials).
* Knowledge of the [Widgets API](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-docs/storefront/widgets/widgets-overview).

## Installing Widget Builder CLI

### Installing on Mac
To install the Widget Builder CLI and its dependencies on Mac, open the terminal and run the following commands. 

> 1. Clone the [widget-builder](https://github.com/bigcommerce/widget-builder) GitHub repo.

Author: The link works.

```shell
npm run install-cli
```

3. To retrieve usage information and view supported options and commands, run the following command:

```shell
widget-builder -h
```

**Sample output**

```shell
Usage: widget-builder [options] [command]

Options:
  -V, --version                  output the version number
  --gen-config                   generate a config.json file
  --gen-query-params             generate a queryParams.json file
  --auto-open <flag>             open browser automatically to the builder
                                 preview (default: "true")
  -h, --help                     display help for command

Commands:
  init                           Initialization of widget builder configuration
  start [options] [widgetPath]   starts the widget builder locally
  validate [options] <file>
  create <widget-template-name>  Create a blank widget template
  publish <widget-template>      Releases the widget template to the store
                                 belonging to the env config
  help [command]                 display help for command
```

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--info">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

<!-- theme: info -->

> > Refer to [Widget Builder README.MD](https://github.com/bigcommerce/widget-builder) for supported `node` version.

Author: The link works.

# Widget Builder CLI

<div class="otp" id="no-index">

### On this page
- [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
- [Installing Widget Builder CLI](#installing-widget-builder-cli)
- [Configuring Widget Builder CLI](#configuring-widget-builder-cli)
- [Building widgets](#building-widgets)
- [Publishing to store](#publishing-to-store)
- [Resources](#resources)

</div>

Widget Builder Command Line Interface (**CLI**) is a command line tool that lets you build, edit, and preview custom storefront widgets in real time outside the context of your BigCommerce store.

This article contains detailed instructions on how to get started with Widget Builder CLI. 

## Prerequisites

* Node.js 14
* npm 6.14
* [A BigCommerce store](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Starting-a-Bigcommerce-Trial).
* API `access_token` with `content modify` scope. For information on how to generate store API credentials, see [Obtaining store API credentials](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-docs/getting-started/authentication/rest-api-authentication#obtaining-store-api-credentials).

## Installing Widget Builder CLI

Follow these instructions to install Widget Builder CLI and its dependencies. 

> 1. In a terminal, clone the [widget-builder](https://github.com/bigcommerce/widget-builder) GitHub repo.

Reviewer: dead link

> 1. In a terminal, clone the [widget-builder](https://github.com/bigcommerce/widget-builder) GitHub repo.

Author: The MERC team is in the process of Open Sourcing the widget-builder repo. Once the repo is made public, the link should work for everyone.

```shell
widget-builder create [widget template name]
```

**Sample output:**

```shell
[2021-09-08T17:29:38.868Z] Successfully created ./test-widget-one 
[2021-09-08T17:29:38.870Z] Successfully created schema.json in ./test-widget-one/schema.json
[2021-09-08T17:29:38.871Z] Successfully created config.json in ./test-widget-one/config.json
[2021-09-08T17:29:38.871Z] Successfully created widget.html in ./test-widget-one/widget.html
[2021-09-08T17:29:39.564Z] Starting widget-builder at http://localhost:8080!
[2021-09-08T17:29:39.887Z] Socket connected.
```

Your default browser should open automatically and display a text widget on port 8080.

## Publishing to store

To publish a widget to your BigCommerce store, run the following command:

```shell
widget-builder publish [path to widget template]
```

## Resources

* [Authenticating BigCommerce's REST APIs](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-docs/getting-started/authentication/rest-api-authentication)
* [Widgets API Overview](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-docs/store-management/widgets/overview)

> * [Widget Builder GitHub repository](https://github.com/bigcommerce/widget-builder)

Reviewer: dead link

> * [Widget Builder GitHub repository](https://github.com/bigcommerce/widget-builder)

Author: The MERC team is in the process of Open Sourcing the widget-builder repo. Once the repo is made public, the link should work for everyone.

- [Publish to store](#publish-to-store)
- [Resources](#resources)

</div>

Widget Builder is a command-line tool that lets you build, edit, and preview custom storefront widgets in real time, outside the context of your BigCommerce store.

This article is a guide to help you learn how to use Widget Builder. 

## Prerequisites

* Node.js 14
* [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) 6.14
* A BigCommerce [store](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Starting-a-Bigcommerce-Trial) or [sandbox store](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-docs/partner/getting-started/create-a-sandbox-store).
* API `access_token` with `content modify` scope. For information on how to generate store API credentials, see [Obtaining store API credentials](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-docs/getting-started/authentication/rest-api-authentication#obtaining-store-api-credentials).

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--info">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

<!-- theme: info -->

> Refer to the [Widget Builder README.md](https://github.com/bigcommerce/widget-builder) for the latest supported `node` version.

</div>
</div>
</div>

## Install Widget Builder

> Follow these instructions to install Widget Builder and its dependencies. 

Reviewer 2: done, see latest.

1. In a terminal, clone the [widget-builder](https://github.com/bigcommerce/widget-builder) GitHub repo.

> 2. Navigate to the `widget-builder` directory and install Widget Builder.

Reviewer 2: added, along with a comma to indicate that the command only installs and does not also navigate.

```shell
npm run install-cli
```

> 3. To retrieve usage information and view supported options and commands, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: good, done.

```shell
widget-builder -h
```

**Sample output:**

```shell
Usage: widget-builder [options] [command]

Options:
  -V, --version                  output the version number
  -h, --help                     display help for command

Commands:
  init                           Initialization of widget builder configuration
  start [options] [widgetPath]   starts the widget builder locally
  validate [options] <file>
  create <widget-template-name>  Create a blank widget template
  publish <widget-template>      Releases the widget template to the store
                                 belonging to the env config
  help [command]                 display help for command
```

## Configure Widget Builder

> Once you have installed Widget Builder, the next step is to set up the widget development environment for your store.  This will authorize you to access your store's data during the development process. You will need the store's `Client ID`, `Access Token`, and `API Path` to generate the appropriate configuration. 

Reviewer: Once you have installed Widget Builder, the next step is to set up the widget development environment for your store.  This setup will authorize you to access your store's data during the development process. You will need the store's `Client ID`, `Access Token`, and `API Path` to generate the appropriate configuration.

Reviewer 2: Revisions in [commit 2bc1188](https://github.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/pull/1200/commits/2bc1188132148dfdbf8190f63b162a853636ac7b) address these concerns.

> Once you have installed Widget Builder, the next step is to set up the widget development environment for your store.  This will authorize you to access your store's data during the development process. You will need the store's `Client ID`, `Access Token`, and `API Path` to generate the appropriate configuration. 

Reviewer 2: this bit has been changed to `This configuration will authorize` and the modal future is parallel at `You will need` in the following sentence.  I'll fiddle with it.

> Once you have installed Widget Builder, the next step is to set up the widget development environment for your store.  This will authorize you to access your store's data during the development process. You will need the store's `Client ID`, `Access Token`, and `API Path` to generate the appropriate configuration. 

Reviewer 2: @bc-tgomez revised, obviated.

> To get started, locate or create a parent directory for the widgets you plan to develop using these credentials.

Reviewer: Locate or create a parent directory for the widgets you plan to develop using these credentials to get started.

Reviewer 2: I began with the action cue because this is the first of two steps that each contain sample inputs/outputs.  Should I number them?  It feels maybe discombobulating to number only two steps that aren't spatially contiguous.

Reviewer 2: @markcmurphy in latest I explicitly refer to them as "credentials" in the paragraph above.  Better?

Reviewer 2: because a dev could use different credentials with the same scope for the same store.  they could develop using one store's credentials with a plan to put those widgets into production on another store.  

in any case, these lines are now different.

> To get started, locate or create a parent directory for the widgets you plan to develop using these credentials.

Reviewer 2: done, see revised.

**Sample input:**

```shell
# organized by name of store  
cd ~/bc-projects/tools-r-us
mkdir widget-workshop
cd widget-workshop
```

> Next, start the interactive sequence that will generate a `.env` file to authenticate the widgets you build in the subfolders of this parent directory.  The session will prompt you to enter your API account credentials. Begin by running `widget-builder init`. 

Reviewer 2: *sob* I'm gonna have to build myself a linter to break myself of `.[SPACE][SPACE]`. Definitely having `get off my lawn` feelings towards the universe rn.

> Next, start the interactive sequence that will generate a `.env` file to authenticate the widgets you build in the subfolders of this parent directory.  The session will prompt you to enter your API account credentials. Begin by running `widget-builder init`. 

Reviewer 2: first changed, second retained to refer to an action that's part of a future process. @bc-tgomez

> Next, start the interactive sequence that will generate a `.env` file to authenticate the widgets you build in the subfolders of this parent directory.  The session will prompt you to enter your API account credentials. Begin by running `widget-builder init`. 

Reviewer 2: resolved, `find&replaced`eded others.

**Sample session:**

```shell
~/bc-projects/tools-r-us/widget-workshop % widget-builder init

Thank you for using Widget Builder

            
This guide will help you get your environment set up.

Before continuing, please make sure you've created or received a Store API account.
You'll need those credentials in order to generate the appropriate configurations.
You can find more information here. https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Store-API-Accounts#creating

? Are you ready to continue? You may press any key to continue (Y/n) Yes
? What is the Client ID? xxxxxxxxxxxxx
? What is the Access Token? xxxxxxxxxxxxx

> ? What is the API Path? https://api.bigcommerce.com/stores/xxxxx/v3/

Reviewer: ? What is the API Path? https://api.bigcommerce.com/stores/{{store-hash}}/v3/

Reviewer 2: more or less.  It's in the file you download when you generate the API access token.  I will add a bit on line `26` to clarify.

Reviewer 3: @traci707 This is part of the shell text, so not much to be done about that

Reviewer 2: @markcmurphy it's a representation of an interactive session, so it's a good place to future-proof & indicate that these values come from the .txt you generate in the API Accounts section of the dashboard.

Reviewer 2: see most recent.

[2021-09-08T15:12:40.271Z] Successfully created your configuration, you're all set!
```
## Reset or create parallel configurations

> If you need to reset the configuration, you can run the `widget-builder init` command in the same directory to overwrite the existing assignments.  Running `widget-builder init` in sibling directory will create a separate development environment.  

Reviewer: If you need to reset the configuration, you can run the `widget-builder init` command in the same directory to overwrite the existing assignments.  Running `widget-builder init` in the sibling directory will create a separate development environment.

Reviewer 2: Revisions in [commit 2bc1188](https://github.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/pull/1200/commits/2bc1188132148dfdbf8190f63b162a853636ac7b) address these concerns.

> If you need to reset the configuration, you can run the `widget-builder init` command in the same directory to overwrite the existing assignments.  Running `widget-builder init` in sibling directory will create a separate development environment.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If you need to reset the configuration, you can run the `widget-builder init` command in the same directory to overwrite the existing assignments.  Running `widget-builder init` in sibling directory creates a separate development environment.  
```

Reviewer 2: retained because these sentences are theoretical, approximating the subjunctive mood.

> Initializing Widget Builder at multiple levels of a single file hierarchy can have unpredictable results and is not recommended.

Reviewer: We do not recommend initializing Widget Builder at multiple levels of a single file hierarchy because it can have unpredictable results.

Reviewer 2: I left this passive to deemphasize the actor.  We need developers who might do this to not, because it will be terrible and they'll call support.  But `unpredictable results and is not recommended` is understatement for `if you do this you don't know how execution environments work`.  So trying not to sound blamey, 'splainey, or humorless.

 
 
<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--warn">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

<!-- theme: warn -->

> > To use Widget Builder as a development tool, you must run `widget-builder` commmands from the same directory where you ran `widget-builder init`.

Reviewer: change "commmands" to "commands"

Reviewer 2: Revisions in [commit 2bc1188](https://github.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/pull/1200/commits/2bc1188132148dfdbf8190f63b162a853636ac7b) address these concerns.

</div>
</div>
</div>
  
## Generate a scaffold with `create`

> To jump start widget development, Widget Builder's `create` command creates a child directory, populates it with the blank template files you need to get started, and spins up a development server.  To use the generator, run the following command:

Reviewer: To jump-start widget development, begin with the Widget Builder's `create` command, which creates a child directory, populates it with the blank template files you need to get started, and spins up a development server. To use the generator, run the following command:

Reviewer 2: Revisions in [commit 2bc1188](https://github.com/bigcommerce/dev-docs/pull/1200/commits/2bc1188132148dfdbf8190f63b162a853636ac7b) address these concerns.

```shell
widget-builder create [[path-to/]some-widget]
```

**Sample output:**

```shell
[2021-09-08T17:29:38.868Z] Successfully created ./some-widget 
[2021-09-08T17:29:38.870Z] Successfully created schema.json in ./some-widget/schema.json
[2021-09-08T17:29:38.871Z] Successfully created config.json in ./some-widget/config.json
[2021-09-08T17:29:38.871Z] Successfully created widget.html in ./some-widget/widget.html
[2021-09-08T17:29:39.564Z] Starting widget-builder at http://localhost:8080!
[2021-09-08T17:29:39.887Z] Socket connected.
```

> Your default browser should open automatically and display a text widget on port 8080.

Reviewer 4: I would suggest to remove the use of "should" in this sentence.

Reviewer 2: good, changed to `will`.

> Your default browser should open automatically and display a text widget on port 8080.

Reviewer 2: done, swapped for `will`.  If it doesn't happen something is wrong and @bc-tgomez is right -- troubleshooting is beyond our scope.

## Continue development with `start`

> To spin up the development server for any existing widget, first ensure that it is located in a child directory of the root where you configured the corresponding environment.  Navigate to that environment root, then run the following command:

Reviewer: To spin up the development server for any existing widget, first ensure to locate the server in a child directory of the root where you configured the corresponding environment. Navigate to that environment root, then run the following command:

Reviewer 2: obviated, see most recent.

```shell
widget-builder start [[path-to/]widget-name]
```
**Sample output:**

```shell
[2021-09-08T17:29:39.564Z] Starting widget-builder at http://localhost:8080!
[2021-09-08T17:29:39.887Z] Socket connected.
```

> Your default browser should open automatically on port 8080.

Reviewer 4: Same suggestions here: would remove "would" because it allows for the possibility that it won't, and we don't provide instructions in the event that it doesn't.

Reviewer 2: good, changed to `will`.

## Publish to store

To publish a widget to your BigCommerce store, navigate to its environment root, then run the following command:

```shell
widget-builder publish [[path/to/]widget-name]
```

> If you're interested in making your widgets available for download or sale on other stores, check out the [BigCommerce App Marketplace](https://www.bigcommerce.com/apps/toolswidgets/) and learn about [becoming a partner developer](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-docs/partner/becoming-a-partner).

Reviewer 5: We don't have any provision for Widget in the current marketplace. We should check with the product on this one.

Reviewer 2: Resolved offline.  TL;DR widgets are currently for sale in the marketplace.

</div>

Widget Builder is a command-line tool that lets you build, edit, and preview custom storefront widgets in real time, outside the context of your BigCommerce store.

This article is a guide to help you learn how to use Widget Builder. 

## Prerequisites

* Node.js 14
* [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) 6.14
* A BigCommerce [store](https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Starting-a-Bigcommerce-Trial) or [sandbox store](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-docs/partner/getting-started/create-a-sandbox-store).
* API `access_token` with `content modify` scope. For information on how to generate store API credentials, see [Obtaining store API credentials](https://developer.bigcommerce.com/api-docs/getting-started/authentication/rest-api-authentication#obtaining-store-api-credentials).

<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--info">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

<!-- theme: info -->

> Refer to the [Widget Builder README.md](https://github.com/bigcommerce/widget-builder) for the latest supported `node` version.

</div>
</div>
</div>

## Install Widget Builder

Follow these instructions to install Widget Builder and its dependencies. 

> 1. In a terminal, clone the [widget-builder](https://github.com/bigcommerce/widget-builder) GitHub repo.

Reviewer 2: good, done, `find&replaced` to make sure that was the only one.

You can find more information here. https://support.bigcommerce.com/s/article/Store-API-Accounts#creating

? Are you ready to continue? You may press any key to continue (Y/n) Yes
? What is the Client ID? xxxxxxxxxxxxx
? What is the Access Token? xxxxxxxxxxxxx
? What is the API Path? https://api.bigcommerce.com/stores/xxxxx/v3/
[2021-09-08T15:12:40.271Z] Successfully created your configuration, you're all set!
```
## Reset or create parallel configurations

If you need to reset the configuration, you can run the `widget-builder init` command in the same directory to overwrite the existing assignments.  Running `widget-builder init` in a sibling directory will create a separate development environment.  

Initializing Widget Builder at multiple levels of a single file hierarchy can have unpredictable results and is not recommended.
 
 
<div class="HubBlock--callout">
<div class="CalloutBlock--warn">
<div class="HubBlock-content">

<!-- theme: warn -->

> To use Widget Builder as a development tool, you must run `widget-builder` commands from the same directory where you ran `widget-builder init`.

</div>
</div>
</div>
  
## Generate a scaffold with `create`

> Jump-start widget development with Widget Builder's `create` command, which creates a child directory, populates it with blank template files, and spins up a development server.  To use the generator, run the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Jump-start widget development with Widget Builder's `create` command, which creates a child directory, populates it with blank template files, and starts a development server.  To use the generator, run the following command:
```
Avoid using spin up unless you're referring to a hard disk.

Reviewer 2: *sob*

Reviewer 2: resolved.

widget-builder init
```

When prompted, enter your API account credentials. This will create the `.env` file with the necessary parameter assignments.

**Sample output:**

```shell
Thank you for using Widget Builder

            

> This guide will help you get your enviornment set up.

Reviewer: This guide will help you get your environment set up.

> Before continuing, please make sure you've created or have been provided a Store API account.

Reviewer: Before continuing, please make sure you've created or received a Store API account.

> You'll need those credentials in order to generate the appropriate configurations.

Reviewer: You'll need those credentials to generate the appropriate configurations.

If you need to reset the configurations, run the `widget-builder init` command to overwrite the existing assignments.

## Building widgets

To start Widget Builder locally, open the directory containing your widget template files and run the following command:

```shell
widget-builder start [path to widget template]
```
Your default browser should open automatically on port 8080.

### Starter template

> To jump start widget development, Widget Builder CLI provides a blank template with the appropriate files needed to start building widgets. To use the starter template, run the following command:

Reviewer: To jump-start widget development, Widget Builder CLI provides a blank template with the appropriate files needed to start building widgets. To use the starter template, run the following command:
